Today we will look at the case of Samplea.
I think it’s a very, very, very
interesting case that you’ll like.
It is very interesting because it is original.
Part of an idea that Robert Bonade,
who is its founder, has,
will tell us.
And from that idea he has been
able to create a spectacular
business model, with very
much potential.
What we’re going to do is, we’ll
see part of the conversation we’
ve had with Robert and
later I’ll do an analysis of the
business model and the innovation
that Robert has created.
By the way, this you have on
screen is a queue of people
waiting in a shopping center.
They are making a queue to access
a sample machine.
In a while you will understand
why.
And well, to begin with, I would like
you to explain who you are, where you
come from, what you have done, that
you will talk a little about your
trajectory, about Publifilms, about
Samplea, etc.
Well, then thank you Borja
for inviting me to share a little
of our opinions from Samplea.
I know you like the project,
very much.
You’ve always liked it, it’s the
first minute you discovered Samplea.
I studied in Barcelona, I studied
advertising, I came from the
world of marketing.
When I just studied in Barcelona,
I came to Madrid, I was 25
and created Publifilms.
It is a specialized agency in
street marketing, mass sampling,
promoters at the point of sale,
all this world.
What is Sampling?
Sampling is the fact of giving
product testing to consumers with
the intention that the product
is sold.
And that’s what brands are
doing today, year after
year, to boost their
sales.
That is, brands hire Publifilms
to share thousands of free
samples of different
types, right?
Robert, I think we already understand
what Publifilms is and it would
really be interesting if you told us
how Samplea is born.
I think it’s born from your experience,
from your experience.
After seeing that at Publifilms
we have given 4 million annual samples
of products like Pepsi, Johnson
& Johnson, different samples,
especially those we have given for
Spain and Portugal, we wanted
to do somehow, in a new way, and
somehow have the opinion of
the consumer, digitize it,
give the product in an innovative
way, not so much through the
promoter, that we have been
doing the same for 40 years.
The promoters are the people who share.
That is, the promoter is the person
you find yourself in a Carrefour,
for example, you enter a Carrefour
and see a tasting of a product,
right?
All that, which today is done
and works, because it is true
that it works, we wanted to do
it in a totally new way and
break the schemes.
How did we do it?
Well, I thought of a machine,
a vending machine, where
the concept was not to pay.
That is, that the user would download
a mobile application, which cost
a lot to develop, that through a mobile
application the user would register,
approach the machine and without
touching the machine, the
machine would detect the fall
of the product.
The user picked up the product
and then we made a product test
between 5 and 10 questions.
Well, I’ll make a summary of
what you told us before we go on.
You were, you were, you didn’t say
it but I think you were the king of
sampling in Spain, you distributed
millions and millions and millions of
samples or samples and one day you
decide that because instead of
delivering it to the promoters you
don’t deliver a machine and then
you decide to connect to those brands
that offer samples like Pepsi, for
example, with the millions of users.
But you decide to connect them through
a machine that shares the free
sample and an application that
allows the user, say, to
give feedback on what he has
offered.
That is, after the success of
the applications in Spain, we did
it, we started this project
four years ago, almost three and
a half years ago we started it and
at that time the applications were
the boom, then we said we did
it through application.
Then through the app we could
digitize that user and be
able to interact with him once
he has tried the product.
That is, you will be able to interact
with the user not only through the
machine, but later because you
already have your application downloaded.
To finish this first part, tell
us in big numbers what the sample
volume is, I don’t talk about billing,
I talk about centers, how many
machines you have, in what
countries you are, how many
users you have.
Now we have almost half
a million users, almost
480,000 people between Android
and Play Store.
Then they are distributed between
Madrid and Barcelona, we have in the
best shopping centers in Spain,
we are in Chanadun, Baguadan,
South Park.
How many machines do you have?
We have five now and we are
going to put one more now, we
are going to six.
The best shopping centers in Spain
with the most traffic.
That is, with more traffic.
And at the international level?
At the international level we start next
week, we start in Central America,
in particular Guatemala, with
the intention of going to Panama,
Mexico and more countries
with this order.
And we started, we are already closing
Kubaid, Kubaid and the Persian Gulf.
The majority of the consumer and
food companies, 80% of them, are
multinational consumers.
We are growing in the
fashion segment.
Fashion segment can be Northwick,
Sunshine, which we have already
done more or less a few campaigns
to boost the e-commerce that they
generate on their website.
Well, I understand, they are very powerful brands.
What do you offer them?
What we offer is coverage.
In 15 days of campaign that
you will do with us, throughout
the wide machine circuit that
we have in the best shopping
centers in Spain, you will
know more than 3 million people,
will know the brand visually.
Of those 3 million who will see the
brand, they will have that visual impact,
we will give 40,000 people,
they will have a direct impact and
they will have a sampling in their
hands of the product.
So what we do is give to test
this product quickly, easily and
innovatively to those thousands
of people that is an important
segment.
Well, what you are saying to me in
the bottom is the same value proposition.
What you have told me so far is the
same value proposal as if you
do it with promoters.
What you don’t know is that
you’re also giving them
a new value, which is feedback.
Here is it.
The promoter of promoters.
Many times we have coincided in
campaigns of promoters stands in
front of the wide machines with
other brands and our wide machines
has much more power our wide
machines that has queues of people
with the mobile hoping
to take their sample than a simple
stand with promoters.
So I think there is a case study
of saying why the user, even
if we have an impediment
to get the machine out, what gives
is more willing and prefers
the machine than to give
it in the hand.
So clearly, I saw it clearly that
day.
Well well perfect.
And what I said, you also offer
these brands that hire you,
that hire you a campaign inside
the machine, you offer them
feedback.
That’s the important thing, that
the user tries the product and the
brand is very interested in the
opinions of those thousands
of people in a record time because
the user has to answer those
questions to be able to get
the next product from the
sample.
I think there is another segment
of customers that you have to consider
in your business model that is what
you call users because you are
connecting to these brands with hundreds
of thousands of people who are
people who are running, waiting and
downloading your application
because even if you don’t cover
directly from them, it’s a
segment of customers because
you’re monetizing it somehow.
So is it.
What do you offer to users?
I offer users a free product
service all year through our
mobile app, with which they
do not delete the app, they become
addicted, they are freebies,
we call them now, they
are crazy for free and they
are a very large community,
they grow more and more,
each user tells 15 people
and it is incredible the
growth we have.
Today, we are the eighth lowest application
in Spain right now.
First of all, the customer pays
us because we decorate the machine,
we make logistics possible,
that is, we make a campaign for it.
The campaign is paid by campaign.
We pay for the campaign.
On the other hand, we also do push
notification campaigns, that is,
once the user knows that he
has liked the product, we
send push notifications
with image to those mobile phones
to plug them in some other
way in which they try the
product.
and perfect.